# The Role of Personal Availability and Gender in Negative Online Congressional Campaigning: Reproduction Guide

[Marshall A. Taylor](marshalltaylor.net)

This repository contains all R code necessary to reproduce the analysis in "The Role of Personal Availability and Gender in Negative Online Congressional Campaigning," forthcoming in *Political Behavior*. You can access a pre-print of the paper [here](https://osf.io/g94m7/).

You can download the necessary data from ICPSR (#34895) [here](https://www.icpsr.umich.edu/web/ICPSR/studies/34895).

Negative campaigning in political elections has received considerable attention. However, an important dimension of negative campaigning remains underexplored: the extent to which a candidate's presentation of self affects their likelihood of *receiving* negativity. Work on gender differences in self-personalization and media personalization also suggests that this effect might be shaped by candidate gender. This paper investigates if a candidate using personal details in the service of campaign promotion increases the likelihood that the candidate will receive negativity from an opponent and if this association is moderated by candidate gender. Using congressional campaign website data from 2002 to 2006, evidence does not suggest that candidates who personalize online are any more likely to receive online negativity. Further, findings suggest that only female candidates see their likelihood of receiving online negativity vary as a function of online self-personalization. Female candidates have a higher likelihood of receiving online negativity from their campaign opponent when the candidate is more personable---that is, when they make information about their private selves more publicly available for negative framing at the hands of their opponent. Robustness checks reveal that this effect is not time independent, however, suggesting the personalization-gender-negativity relationship may be conditional on electoral context.
